Homework Reflection 5

1. Draw a diagram for the following negative feedback loop:

Sweating causes body temperature to decrease.  High body temperature causes sweating.

A negative feedback loop means that one thing increases another while the second thing decreases the first.

Remember that we are using directed acyclic graphs where two things cannot directly cause each other.

2. Describe an example of a positive feedback loop.  This means that one things increases another while the second things also increases the first.

3. Draw a diagram for the following situation:

Lightning storms frighten away deer and bears, decreasing their population, and cause flowers to grow, increasing their population.
Bears eat deer, decreasing their population.
Deer eat flowers, decreasing their population.

Write a dataset that simulates this situation.  (Show the code.) Include noise / randomness in all cases.

Identify a backdoor path with one or more confounders for the relationship between deer and flowers.

What is a potential problem with computing the Marginal Treatment Effect simply by comparing each untreated item to its counterfactual and taking the maximum difference? (Think of statistics here.)
Expected answer: We are likely to find the item with the most extreme difference, which may be high simply due to randomness.

Propose a solution and write some code that implements your solution
Expected answer: maybe we could take the 90th percentile of the treatment effect and use it as a proxy for the Marginal Treatment Effect.

4. Draw a diagram for a situation of your own invention.  The diagram should include at least four nodes, one confounder, and one collider.  Be sure that it is acyclic (no loops).  Which node would say is most like a treatment (X)?  Which is most like an outcome (Y)?

Homework Reflection 6

1. What is a potential problem with computing the Marginal Treatment Effect simply by comparing each untreated item to its counterfactual and taking the maximum difference?  (Hint: think of statistics here.  Consider that only the most extreme item ends up being used to estimate the MTE.  That's not necessarily a bad thing; the MTE is supposed to come from the untreated item that will produce the maximum effect.  But there is nevertheless a problem.)

2. Propose a solution that remedies this problem and write some code that implements your solution.  It's very important here that you clearly explain what your solution will do.
